
# 范式
- 第一范式(1NF)

(必须有主键，列不可分)

- 第二范式(2NF)

数据库表中非关键字段对任一候选关键字段的 都 不存在部分函数依赖

(当一个表是复合主键时，非主键的字段不依赖于部分主键(即必须依赖于全部的主键字段))
- 第三范式(3NF)

关系模式R（U，F）中的所有非主属性对任何候选关键字都不存在传递依赖

- 鲍依斯-科得范式（BCNF）

在3NF的基础上，库表中任何字段对任一候选关键字段的传递函数依赖都不存在

# C1
- instance
The collection of
information stored in the database at a particular moment is called an instance of the database.
- schema
The overall design of the database is called the database schema.

The physical schema describes the database design at the physical level, while
the logical schema describes the database design at the logical level

A database system provides a data-definition language (DDL) to specify the database
schema and a data-manipulation language (DML) to express database queries and updates.

The data dictionary is considered to be a special type of table that can be accessed and updated only by the database system
itself (not a regular user).

# C2
which uses a declarative language called Pig Latin, based on the relational algebra. All these systems allow data to be read directly
from the file system but allow the programmer to define functions that convert the input data to a record format.
## create
> create table department
> (dept name varchar (20),
> primary key (dept name));
## alter
> alter table instructor drop constraint minsalary;
intersect

## having clause
SQL applies predicates in the having clause
after groups have been formed, so aggregate functions may be used in the having clause.
We express this query in SQL as follows:
> select dept name, avg (salary) as avg salary
> from instructor
> group by dept name
> having avg (salary) > 42000;

# C7
## lossless decomposition
We say that the decomposition is a lossless decomposition if there is no loss of information by replacing R with two relation schemas R1 and R2

## 1NF
We say that a relation schema R is in first normal form (1NF) if the domains of all attributes of R are atomic.

## 3NF
α → β is a trivial functional dependency.
• α is a superkey for R.
• Each attribute A in β − α is contained in a candidate key for R.
## BCNF
• α → β is a trivial functional dependency (i.e., β ⊆ α).
• α is a superkey for schema R.

## canonical cover

Leaf nodes must have between ceil((n–1)/2)  to n –1 values
Non-leaf nodes other than root must have between n/2 to n children （pointer）.
Root must have at least n/2 children（pointer） .
